# -AGRICULTURE-AQUACULTURE-SYSTEMS-AAS-

The integration of aquaculture within wider farming systems has been promoted as a way of increasing food production, conserving the environment and ensuring food security. Such systems are known as integrated agri-aquaculture systems (IAAS), which are characterized by their capacity to generate synergies between farm enterprises. Agri-aquaculture systems are generally family farming systems, comprised of three major sub-systems: aquaculture, agriculture and household. In this chapter, most of the common positive interactions of agri-aquaculture systems are reviewed, such as: (1) the use of animal manure as pond fertilizer, (2)the use of crop by-products as supplementary feed for fish, (3) the use of pond sediments as terrestrial crop fertilizers, and (4) the use of aquaculture wastewater for crop irrigation. Other indirect positive interactions between farm components on agri-aquaculture systems are also reviewed, such as the control of pests and weeds by fish in rice fields, the control of malaria, and the use of on-farm substrates for periphyton growth. This review shows how synergies are usually tested through controlled experiments that do not provide sound information about the behavior of the system as a whole. When integrated farming systems are analyzed, trade-off becomes evident among farming components, and therefore the opportunities for positive interactions that they generate. These trade-offs make difficult the inclusion of different kinds of synergies within the same farm. Approaches for the analysis of agri-aquaculture systems must involve broader scales, and as such, resilience theory provides a useful framework for further studies. KeywordsIntegrated farming-Fish culture-Synergies-Malaria
